Multi constraint pricing system (#2988)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/02-configure-your-chain/common-configurations/constraint-based-pricing-for-arbitrum-chains.mdx

---
title: 'Constraint Based Pricing for Arbitrum chains'
sidebar_label: 'Constraint Based Pricing for Arbitrum chains'

> description: 'Guidance & best practices for using Constraint Based Pricing on Arbitrum chains'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'Guidance & best practices for using Dynamic Pricing on Arbitrum chains'
```

content_type: release announcement
author: asomani
sme: asomani
---

## tldr; (ArbOS 51\)

> Arbitrum chains are going to be using a new gas pricing algorithm that uses multiple-gas targets, or “constraints” as part of the ArbOS 51 upgrade to reduce the frequency and severity of child chain gas price spikes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arbitrum chains are going to be using a new gas pricing algorithm that uses multiple-gas targets, as part of the ArbOS 51 upgrade to reduce the frequency and severity of child chain gas price spikes. This is the first optimization of many towards Dynamic Pricing.
```

- **Key Action:** We recommend waiting for 30 days before enabling the new constraints for your own chain. *[Updated: 8th Jan 2025]*

  This change is **backward compatible**. Setting new gas pricing constraints is **not mandatory**; if no new configuration is set, the legacy gas pricing algorithm remains active.

:::note

The upgrade to ArbOS 51 is independent of setting of these new gas targets. The new constraints are completely opt-in, so you can choose when to enable them.

:::

- **The Change:** The new algorithm uses multiple time windows and multiple gas targets to balance traffic spikes with overall fee stability.

> - **Additional Details:** For those interested in how these values are derived, this document provides the underlying parameters used to calculate optimized constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Additional Details:** For those interested in how these values are derived, this document provides the underlying parameters used to calculate the new gas targets and adjustment windows.
```
